.TH TTX2XGF 1 "2009-12-18"
.SH NAME
.B ttx2xgf
\- extracts instructions from a TTX file and creates an Xgridfit program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttx2xgf [options]
.IR infile[.ttx]
.IR [outfile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ttx2xgf
is a utility that extracts instructions (hints) and other information
relating to instructions from a TTX file (an XML representation of a
TrueType font) and creates a new Xgridfit program.
.PP
If
.I infile
lacks the
.I .ttx
extension, it is assumed. If
.I outfile
is not given, output is written to
.I infile.xgf.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-\-config"
Path to a configuration file (relative paths are permitted).
If this is not given, ttx2xgf will look first for a file
.I config.xml
in the current directory, next in the user's Xgridfit configuration
directory, and finally in the Xgridfit base directory.
.IP "\-e"
Display diagnostic messages (for debugging).
.IP "\-E, \-\-elapsed-time"
Time the running of this program and display the result.
.IP "\-\-processor=libxslt|lxml|xsltproc|saxon-6|saxon-9|xalan-j|xalan-c|4xslt"
Select a preferred XSLT processsor; ttx2xgf will use this one
if possible.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/util/convert-ttx.xsl
An XSLT script that performs the initial conversion.
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/util/convert-asm.sed
A Sed script that completes the conversion.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xgridfit (1),
.BR xgfconfig (1),
.BR ttx (1)
.\" .br
.SH AUTHOR
.B ttx2xgf
was written by Peter Baker
.nh
<psb6m@virginia.edu>.
.hy 
.PP
This manual page was written by Peter Baker
