.TH XGFCONFIG 1 "2010-01-16"
.SH NAME
.B xgfconfig
\- configuration program for Xgridfit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xgfconfig options [list]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xgfconfig
selects XSLT processors and RELAX NG validators
for Xgridfit to use; it can also be used to specify a new Xgridfit
base directory.
.PP
Xgridfit maintains lists of validators and processors; on starting,
it consults these lists and runs the first validator and processor
it can find. Xgfconfig reorders these lists so that your preferred
programs are looked for first. Xgfconfig may be invoked in one of
these forms:

     $ xgfconfig --processors processor-list

     $ xgfconfig --validators validator-list

     $ xgfconfig --xgridfit-dir /xgridfit/directory

     $ xgfconfig --show
.PP
The first of these selects processors (one or more of libxslt, lxml,
xsltproc, saxon-6, saxon-9, xalan-j, xalan-c, 4xslt); the second
selects validators (one or more of libxml2, lxml, jing, msv, rnv);
the third specifies a complete path to the Xgridfit base directory
(use it if you have installed Xgridfit in your own account rather
than system wide); the fourth displays the current configuration.
.PP
Several of the processors and validators that Xgridfit knows about
are Java programs; for these, Xgridfit needs the name and location
of a .jar file (by default it assumes certain standard file names,
found in /usr/share/java). Specify this with a hash-mark followed
by a complete
path-name for the file. Here are sample command lines:

     $ xgfconfig -p saxon-9#/usr/local/share/java/saxon9he.jar lxml

     $ xgfconfig --config=config.xml -V rnv msv#/home/me/java/msv.jar
.PP
The second of these commands stores the configuration in the file
.I config.xml
in the current directory. (When it starts, Xgridfit looks first for
a file
.I config.xml
in the
current directory; failing that, it looks for
.I ~/.xgridfit/config.xml
(Linux/Mac) or
.I some-path
(Windows); finally it looks in the
Xgridfit base directory before giving up and using the default
configuration.)
.PP
An Xgridfit configuration file is a simple XML file, easily editable
by users. The entries in it should be all but self-explanatory.
.hy .
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-\-config"
The configuration file to read or write. If this is not specified,
Xgfconfig will search in the standard places (see above) for an
existing configuration file for which the user has write privileges.
Failing that, it will create a configuration file in the directory
~/.xgridfit (Linux/Mac) or some-dir (Windows). If the user is root
or has administrative privileges, Xgfconfig will create the file
in the Xgridfit base directory.
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Display a help message and exit.
.IP "\-p, \-\-processors"
The list following the options is a list of processors.
.IP "\-s, \-\-show"
Display the current configuration and exit.
.IP "\-V, \-\-validators"
The list following the options is a list of validators.
.IP "\-x, \-\-xgridfit\-dir"
Following the options is the full pathname of the Xgridfit base
directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fontforge (1),
.BR xgridfit (1),
.BR ttx2xgf (1),
.BR xgfupdate (1).
.\" .br
.SH AUTHOR
.B Xgfconfig
was written by Peter Baker
.nh
<psb6m@virginia.edu>.
.hy 
.PP
This manual page was written by Peter Baker
