.TH XGFMERGE 1 "2009-12-18"
.SH NAME
.B xgfmerge
\- merges two Xgridfit program files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xgfmerge
[options]
.IR file-a
.IR file-b
.IR [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xgfmerge
merges two or more Xgridfit program files, where file-a is a program
generated automatically from an existing font using TTX and
ttx2xgf, and file-b and any other files in the list contain
other programming for the font.
.B Xgfmerge
outputs the merged programming to stdout.
To capture the output in a file, use this syntax:

     $xgfmerge -o merged-file.xgf file-a.xgf file-b.xgf
.hy .
.PP
.B "Note:"
To merge Xgridfit instructions with those already in a font, the
best method is now to run Xgridfit in merge-mode (option \-m).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-c"
Look for a <default type="compile-globals"/> element in each file
after the first in the list. If value="no" then ignore all
<default>, <control-value>, <function>, <macro> and <pre-program>
elements in the file.
.IP "\-h"
Display a help message.
.IP "\-n"
Merge <no-compile> elements from all files. <glyph> elements
with duplicate "ps-name" attributes are ignored.
.IP "\-o file"
The file to write the output to. If this option is not used,
output is written to stdout.
.IP "\-p"
When a <pre-program> element in a file other than file-a is
available, use it instead of the one from file-a. If this option
is not present, xgfmerge merges the programming in the
<pre-program> of file-a with that in the <pre-program>
of whichever file is being merged at the moment.
The result is unlikely to be good
if a single run of xgfmerge merges the contents of more than two
<pre-program> elements.
.IP "\-s"
Sort <glyph> elements in the output file into alphabetical order.
.IP "\-v"
Verbose output: xgfmerge tells you what it is doing at each
step.
.IP "\-x"
Resolve XIncludes before merging all files in the list except for
file-a. Any XIncludes
from file-a.xgf are stripped out of the files before
this operation is performed. If XInclude is used to bring
global elements (<control-value>, <function>, etc.) into these
files, it is probably a good idea to use the \-c option as well.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/util/merge.xsl
An XSLT script that performs the merge.
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/util/xinclude.xsl
An XSLT script that strips out unwanted XIncludes.
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/util/sort-glyphs.xsl
An XSLT script that sorts glyph elements in a file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/xml/xgridfit/utils/add-blanks.sed
Does some formatting of the output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xgridfit (1),
.BR ttx (1),
.BR ttx2xgf (1).
.\" .br
.SH AUTHOR
.B Xgfmerge
was written by Peter Baker
.nh
<psb6m@virginia.edu>.
.hy 
.PP
This manual page was written by Peter Baker
